In the previous tutorial,
we talked about the linear regression
being a trend line that best fits your data.
Today we'll find out how to find that best fitting line
or in fact, how the simple linear regression finds
that line for you.
So, here's our simple linear regression, the same chart,
salary versus experience,
we've got these red dots
which represent the actual observations
that we have in our data
and we've got the trend line
which represents the best fitting line
or the simple linear regression model.
So, now let's draw some vertical lines
from the actual observations to the model
and let's look at one of these specific examples
to understand what we're talking about here.
So, here you can see
that the red cross is where that person
is sitting at in terms of salary,
so let's say this person with 10 years of experience
is earning $100,000.
Well, the model line, so the black line at the bottom,
it actually tells us where that person should be sitting
according to the model in terms of salary
and according to the model, it should be a bit lower,
it should be somewhere where that green cross is
which is about maybe let's say $80,000.
So, now the red cross is called yi,
so y of the subscript i
and that is the actual duration,
the green cross is called yi hat
and that is the modeled observation
or the modeled value, so basically with that level
of experience where would he be,
where does the model predict that he would be earning?
And so, the green line therefore
is the difference between what he's actually earning
and what he should be earning,
or not should be, what he's modeled to be earning,
so therefore the green line,
it will be the same regardless
of what dependent variable you have,
whether it's salary or it's grade at school, whatever,
so it's the difference between the observed
and the modeled
for that level of independent variable.
Now, to get this best fitting line,
what is done is you take the sum,
you take each one of those green lines
or those distances, you square them
and then you take the sum of those squares.
Once you have the sum of the squares,
you gotta find the minimum.
So, basically what a simple linear regression does
is it draws lots and lots and lots of these lines,
these trend lines, this is like a simplistic way
of imagining it,
the linear regression draws all possible trend lines
through your data and counts the sum
of those squares every single time
and it records it somewhere in a temporary file
or something like that
and then it finds the minimum one,
so it looks for the minimum sum of squares,
it finds the line which has the smallest sum
of squares possible
and that line will be the best fitting line
and that is called the ordinary least squares method.
So, that's how the simple linear regression works
and I look forward to seeing you on the next tutorial.